= El Dap

A simple search and authentication tool for Active Directory using LDAP.

== Why make this?

The need for this gem arose out of a business requirement for all user authentication to be done against Active Directory. 
Our users were tired of having to remember multiple usernames and passwords, and asked if they could simply use their network 
credentials to log into our applications. This gem passes off their username and password to an Active Directory / LDAP 
server for authentication.

Additionally, users are also able to search the Active Directory.

== Installation

Just add this to your gem file:

  gem 'el_dap'

== Features

* Easily perform authentication against an Active Directory / LDAP server
* Search an Active Directory based on wildcard search criteria

== Usage

Assuming we have an Active Directory called *ad.domain.com* which can also be referred to simply as *ad*, 
the following examples are valid:

=== Authenticate a user

  ElDap.configure do |c|
    c.server_ips = ['127.0.0.1']
    c.treebase = 'dc=ad,dc=domain,dc=com'
  end

  ElDap.validate("ad\\ed.james", 'password') # will return true if username and password are valid
  ElDap.validate("ed.james@ad.domain.com", 'password') # will return true if username and password are valid

=== Search the directory

  ElDap.configure do |c|
    c.username = 'service.account@ad.domain.com'
    c.password = 'password'
    c.server_ips = ['127.0.0.1']
    c.treebase = 'dc=ad,dc=domain,dc=com'
  end

  ElDap.search('some guy') # will return an array of OpenStruct objects for each matching search result.

== Contributing to El Dap

My understanding of LDAP limited. This gem has only been tested on a Linux server which queries Active Directory. The gem is in 
production, but I'm not sure how well it will perform in another kind of LDAP-enabled architecture. Any comments or assistence 
would be greatly appreciated.

If you want to contribute:

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn’t been implemented or the bug hasn’t been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn’t requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don’t break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Ed James. See LICENSE for details.

